So to make sure that we're locked out when token expires I'll add a new function in our.
Off action.
So in the actions folder and the off jazz fall I'll add a no new function here where I want to set a
timer that basically expires when the token is expired so we can call this set logout timer for example
and there.
I expect to get the expiration time and in the year we can use the good old set timeout which React
Native supports in its javascript version to set a timer that expires after this time and let's say
this is a value in milliseconds so that's just an assumption I have and we have to make sure that we
pass the data in milliseconds stay for their offer.
This function here will execute once the token expired and there the question is now what do we do there.
Well in the end I want to dispatch logout here.
Right.
So the first set logger attempt at humour should probably not be a normal function but actually here
I will have a function which takes advantage of redux thunk.
So where we have this function in a function where it is inner function gets dispatch as an argument
and they offer once Wednesday's async task finished.
Once this timer expired we can dispatch logout so we can dispatch to assault of this action creator
which is this action in the end.
So that happens when the timer is done.
Now when we do log out I also want to clear any running timer's because maybe we have that automatically
set timer here which we're not setting yet but will soon do then I want to clear debts timer when we
manually log out so that I don't have that ongoing timer.
Even though it's redundant so we can add a new variable maybe at the top of the file here which I'll
named timer which is on initialized initially and then a year when we set a timer.
I will set the result of set time old timer or a story to result of that in timer which is a pointer
at this timer and add a new function.
Maybe here clear logout timer which is now a normal function not a function that gets this dispatch
inner function but a normal function where I simply call clear timeout timer and the timer is that variable
which points at the timer.
I just want to check whether timer exists if it's not undefined and if it is not undefined I'll call
this clear timeout is a built in function built into javascript to get rid of that timer.
So if dead we concluded a timer.
If we don't need it anymore and I want to get rid of it whenever we log out.
So whenever this happens here I will call clear logout timer and one everything I need to do when I
log out is I need to clear my async storage of course.
So here I can call async storage remove item user data again using that same identifier I used for storing
the data.
So I used user data down there.
I need to use the same identifier for clearing it now remove item returns a promise and we could wait
for this.
In that case we would need to return that inner syntax where we get dispatch and we do our async task.
So we move this code here into debt and then here we can.
This patch does action.
We could do all of that if we're interested in the result of remove item.
But here I am not interested I'll just fired is it don't wait for this promise to complete.
Instead I immediately return this new action object and I trust that this will complete Nalco.
Of course you could restructured as but that's how I will do it.
This should remove the data from our local storage if that logout does this.
We have to logout a timer function which sets a timer which does log out once this expires.
Now we just have to make sure that we dispatch this set logout timer.
Action creator here that we use does action creator and I want to use this when we authenticate so we
have this authenticate action here and there in the end.
I need to dispatch set logger timer as well as this here so there I will know you actually use this
difference in text where we got this inner function which receives dispatch so that here I can dispatch
set logout timer so that this year is triggered.
And of course this also means that here instead of returning this we also need to dispatch this so we
dispatch two actions here which is absolutely fine so I set my timer and I then dispatch to authenticate
action.
Now of course the logger timer needs to know how long it should take the expiration time is required.
And I expect to get this does expiry time just to mix up names as an argument here in authenticate so
that I can forward this here to my logout timer.
That means that every place where we dispatch to authenticate action or where we use this action creator
I should say this every place where we do this does not just need to provide the user I.D. into token
but also the expiry time.
And that starts here with sign up when we sign up.
We have our expiration date here and we dispatch authenticate now authenticate all the needs to expiry
time.
Now the good thing is here it's very easy to find out when this expires because we have it in the response
data there we have this expires in field which is of course a string.
So with parse end we can convert is to be a number and then does will be in seconds authenticate and
set logout timer expect values in milliseconds.
So I will multiply this with 1000 and it will also add this in log in of course there.
I will also add that as a third argument here.
So that for log in when we dispatch does authenticate action we also forward our expiration time which
we're getting back from firebase now we also have one other place where we need to do that.
And that's the startup screen because data.
We also dispatch authenticate and here we need to calculate the remaining time because this kicks in
whenever we restart the app.
So here we don't know how long it will take for the token to expire.
We need to calculate this.
So here we have my I can calculate the expiration time by basically taking the expiration date which
is a date object and calling gets time on it which gives me its timestamp in milliseconds since the
beginning of time.
And from that I have to deduct the current timestamp gets time.
So the current timestamp in milliseconds this will be in the future.
This is now.
So the difference should be a positive number because I'm checking that this isn't a future here.
So this should be a positive number in milliseconds.
So now the expiration time here can be forwarded to authenticate with that we should have all the logout
as well.
Now to validate that this works.
Let's go to the off J.S. file and actually there indie set logout timer function.
All temporarily divide the expiration time by 1000 which means I'll divide the milliseconds by 1000
which turns them into seconds.
And that means we should be instantly locked out now.
If I reload I am locked out but you will soon notice that there's only theoretically works if I do log
in again I'm logged in and now it sends a divided value by 1000.
I should be logged out author free dot six seconds but I'm not I can navigate around but if I reload
indeed now I'm locked out so it kind of cleaned up the data but it didn't navigate us back to the off
screen.
And the reason for that is that we never instruct react native to navigate us back to the off screen.
So that's the missing piece.
Clearing our a redux store is nice but in reaction to that clearance we need to make sure we're taken
back to the off screen to make sure that this happens we need one place which is always rendered which
wraps our entire app where we can listen to our redux store and find out when our token is reset to
know so that if that happens we can navigate back to the off screen noted would be the app jazz file
because that wraps everything.
But the problem is in there I set up redux here so redux in my store is only available inside of here.
So in nested child components and that's already my navigator a component to which I have no direct
access.
The solution is to simply wrap this with another component I'll create that in the navigation folder
because on a name it navigation container.
Now this is a normal react component like this.
Where I don't need anything from RAC native but we're adjusted up my Neva Gration container component
where I receive props and returns I'm j is X in the end and export this as a default navigation container
now in there I want to set up my navigational import shop Navigator from the shop Navigator which is
in the same folder and that will be what a return here.
My shop navigator like this now I can use my navigation container here in the app J.S. file so instead
of importing shop navigator here I import my navigation container from the navigation folder and the
from the navigation container file and use navigation container here instead of the shop navigator.
Now this is simply a wrapper around the shop navigator but since it's inside of the provider I now have
access to redux there.
So in here we can import use selector from react redux and use that here to tap into redux.
So here in the navigation container I can simply get access to is off let's say by using use selector
that takes this function which gives me access to the redux state and then I can access state DOT of
DOT token to get access to the token in my off state slice and use a double bang operator to basically
force this to be true or false and if we have no token this will be false so is off will be false in
that case if we have a token it will be true.
So it is off as true if we have a token which makes sense I guess now we can use fact here to react
to changes in that.
So here and use effect my dependency array includes is off.
So when is off changes does affect function should run and therefore here I can then check if we're
not authenticated because that's what I'm caring about.
If is off it's not true if it is true I don't care but if it is not true then I want to navigate to
the off screen and now we have a no problem.
The navigator is here and only in components that are rendered with the help of the Navigator we have
access to proper navigation to navigate but thankfully react navigation gives us an escape hatch we
can use a ref to get access to the navigation functionality with the help of this component when we
use it in our as X code we can create such a ref with used ref with the use ref hook and we simply create
our NAV ref here by calling use ref like this.
And you should be aware of references and react which is basically a way for you to divert the axis
the element you render and J is X and now we can add the ref property to the shop navigator and a scientist
to NAF ref or the other way around.
So this establishes a connection between the NAF ref constant and this element which in the end is rendered
here and now with this here in the effect we can call NAV for ref dot current.
Does this how refs work.
They have a current property dispatch this patch is a method made available by the shop navigator or
by his app container which it isn't the end because shop container is nothing else than what shop navigator
J.S. exports which is such a app container component and this component has a dispatch method which
you can use to dispatch a navigation action for that.
We now need to import something from react navigation and that something is the navigation actions object
here and then here we call navigation actions dot navigate.
And now it is allows us to navigate however not with all like this but this requires the object as an
argument where you set up the route name and this can now be off.
So this is how we can now navigate from insert this component even though it's outside of the navigator
so this goes to off whatever our is all state changes to not authenticated despite away all the means
that in the shop navigator in our logout button we don't need to navigate here because if we trigger
logout if we dispatch this action we clear the token and redux and therefore this should automatically
trigger our navigation thanks to this navigation container.
And if for now if we save that we should navigate two off when the token is invalid.
So now if a log in again after free dot six seconds we should be locked out and we should see that we
are logged out.
Yeah that's looking good.
Let's give it another try.
Here
yeah.
Going back and that's all the try manual logging out so I go to log in opened this click log out.
This also still works.
So with that we got the auto log out functionality built in.
Now let's go back to the off action file and remove this dummy division here because I only did this
for testing of course that don't want to manually shorten my expiration time instead.
Now here we have a functionality that works and that makes sure that no matter if we're signing up or
we're signing in or whatever we're doing we have a token which we store which we can use and we're making
sure that we're also locked out automatically if our token expires.
This is the finished application here.